# Quantitative Research Approaches – SMR020L010S
Prof Miles Berry
2024-01-30

# Introduction

> Statistical thinking will one day be as necessary for efficient
> citizenship as the ability to read and write.  
> *Samuel S Wilks*

Quantitative research approaches are typically sited within and
empiricist paradigm, which seeks to understand the social world through
measurement, analysis and experiment. It borrows heavily from the
scientific method, whilst acknowledging that measurement and observation
of social phenomena rarely enjoys the precision or objectivity of the
natural sciences.

Quantitative research is often contrasted with qualitative research,
which is more concerned with understanding the meaning of social
phenomena from the perspective of those involved, and which is more
likely to be sited within an interpretivist paradigm. In practice, the
distinction between quantitative and qualitative research is not always
clear cut, and many research projects will draw on both approaches.

> Quantitative researchers are concerned with the development and
> testing of hypotheses and the generation of models and theories that
> explain behaviour. (Hoy, 2010)

During the coalition and Conservative governments from 2010, educational
policy in England has been increasingly led by quantitative approaches.
Goldacre (2013) makes a strong case for using the sort of randomised
control trials seen in medicine to evaluate educational interventions,
and this has been taken up by the Education Endowment Foundation[^1],
which has funded a number of such trials.

Quantitative research methods are fundamentally concerned with data -
information in a well-structured, often tabular, form, typically
expressed as numbers. Quantitative methods thus deal with things that
can be counted or measured, or with other forms of data that might be
converted into numbers. Quantitative methods today make much use of
computation, allowing large data sets to be analysed and visualised in
ways that would have been impossible in the past.

This module is a practical one, with an emphasis on data analysis and
manipulation. You learn how to collect and organise numerical data, how
to work with it, how to develop narratives from this data and how to use
data to answer research questions. You have the opportunity to
experiment with advanced digital methods and associated tools and to
gain hands-on experience of applying digital methods to questios in
education.

We’ll explore a wide range of scenarios relevant to present day
concerns, seeing how data can help us understand complex systems,
identify patterns, relationships and exceptions and, sometimes, suggest
possible explanations. We explore new tools and approaches in each
session, with ample opportunity to put these to use, independently and
with my support.

Our approach begins with obtaining and then cleaning the data, making
sure that it’s in a *tidy* form that can be readily analysed. Much of
the time, we’ll draw on techniques of exploratory data analysis, using
digital technology to transform data sets to reveal patterns and
anomalies, and making the most of the visualisation tools which digital
technology provides. Sometimes we’ll try to fit models to explain the
relationships and the differences within the data we study, and I’ll
explain the statistical concepts on which this approach draws. More
importantly, you’ll learn about communicating what you discover in your
investigations, writing with impact and authority, using well chosen
visualisation to illustrate your point. You’ll learn about some key
statistical techniques to demonstrate the *significance* of your
findings, and the *confidence* with which you can assert them.

We are much more concerned with ideas than tools, but you’ll need to
develop a degree of fluency with analytical tools. Whilst much can be
done using Microsoft Excel, Tableau or SPSS, modern data science makes
use of programming for much of its power, so here we introduce you to
the Python programming language[^2], and the Pandas toolkit for data
analysis[^3]. You’ll learn how to use Jupyter notebooks[^4] to combine
code, data and narrative, and how to use Python to create visualisations
using the Seaborn[^5] and Plotly[^6] libraries. You’ll also learn how to
use Google Colab[^7] to run Python code in the cloud, without needing to
install any software on your own computer.

## Contact details

Lulham 005,  
Froebel College  
University of Roehampton  
London  
SW15 5PJ

m.berry@roehampton.ac.uk

0208 392 3241

Virtual office hours: [Mondays, 4:00-6:00 and Thursdays,
4:00-6:00](https://outlook.office.com/bookwithme/user/939eb4ced0d04e70a10a0641b0f78308%40roehampton.ac.uk/meetingtype/WEE7ZvD6X0-pleAYCzY7lw2?anonymous).

## Learning Outcomes

If you successfully complete this course you will:

- be familiar with commonly used ways of presenting quantitative data in
  educational and social research, and appreciate their usefulness and
  limitations;  
- have an understanding of a range of quantitative methods of
  analysis;  
- have an understanding of when it is appropriate to apply particular
  methods of data collection and analysis;  
- know how to conduct a range of statistical analysis using digital
  tools including hypothesis testing, comparison of means, correlation,
  and regression;  
- be critically reflective about the conduct of quantitative research
  and be able to evaluate others’ research; and
- import, clean and analyse a set of data; give a written explanation of
  the nature of the data, illustrate the data with appropriate
  visualisations; identify and explain patterns and relationships in the
  data; and discuss the significance of what you find.

# Assessment Brief

## Part 1 - Data Visualisation Portfolio

**Hand in:** **2pm on Wednesday 1 May 2024**, via Turnitin on the module
Moodle page.

**Feedback published:** 2pm on 22 May 2024.

**Marks** This is a summative assessment and is worth 100% of your
module mark.

### Brief

We agree a suitable dataset for the assignment on or by 12 March 2024. I
support you in preparing this for analysis. You import the data to a
suitable platform[^8] and provide descriptive statistics and some
exploratory visualisations. You identify three interesting questions
based on the dataset and offer further visualisations and analysis to
answer these. You indicate the statistical significance of your
findings, where appropriate. You document this process through a
narrative and by inclusion of source code or equivalent. You reflect
critically on your approach and conclusions, by reference to the
literature on research methods and similar studies. Your report should
be no more than 3,500 words, including code.

### Guidance

You will be assessed on your understanding of statistical concepts and
practices, your ability to create effective visualisations which
communicate the structure, patterns and relationships present in data
observing the conventions of statistical communication, your analysis of
the data, including modelling and significance testing where
appropriate, and your ability to write a critical commentary which
reflects, supports and extends the visualisations and analysis.

1.  **Understanding of statistics**  
    Have you made appropriate use of summative statistics such as means,
    medians, quartiles, standard deviations? Has data been appropriate
    grouped or categorised? Does the type of chart or other
    visualisation correspond to the nature of the data shown? Where
    appropriate, have you made reference to confidence of sample
    statistics?

2.  **Use of visualisations**  
    Does any chart or other visualisation effectively communicate the
    data itself? Does it show the structure, pattern or relationship in
    the data? Does it make comparisons easy? Does it conform to the
    standards of statistical communication, such as labelled axes, a key
    or legend and acknowledgement of the data source? Is data presented
    in a way that does not confuse the reader? Is it easy for the reader
    to interpret the visualisation correctly? Is it well designed
    (e.g. good use of colour or shape, an absence of clutter)?

3.  **Analysis** Have you given confidence intervals for means and
    proportions of sample data, where it is appropriate to do so? Have
    you compared groups within your data, stating the significance of
    any differences? Have you identified and explained any relationships
    between variables? Have you modelled any relationships between
    variables? Have you tested the significance of any relationships?
    Have you identified and explained any exceptions or outliers in the
    data?

4.  **Commentary and communication**  
    Does the commentary reveal something noteworthy, interesting or
    surprising in the data? Does the commentary give the source of the
    data? Does it give a clear, precise description of observed
    phenomenon? Does it offer an explanation? Is it supported by
    appropriate reference to research methods literature and similar
    studies? Does it comment critically on limitations or weaknesses? Is
    it of an appropriate length? Is it written in a clear, precise style
    appropriate for scholarly work?

## Submission requirements

1.  **Plagiarism under any circumstances is unacceptable. It is a
    serious academic offence.** Please refer to the Referencing,
    Plagiarism & RefWorks section on the Learning Skills Hub on Moodle
    for guidelines on plagiarism and how to make proper citations.

2.  Use the citethemright Harvard[^9] system of reference for all cited
    quotations and sources.

<!-- -->

3.  It is your responsibility to check you have submitted your work
    correctly. Your assignment submission must be completed before 2pm
    on Turnitin to ensure that your work is recorded as submitted on
    time.

4.  Make sure you have received a receipt for your submission,
    confirming it has been uploaded successfully before the deadline.
    Where technical problems occur with Turnitin across the University,
    you will be contacted to inform you of any special arrangements that
    have been put in place to mitigate any impact.

5.  Work submitted up to 2pm, 14 calendar days after the deadline will
    be marked and feedback will be provided in the normal way. However,
    in the absence of an extension, it will only be registered formally
    as a pass (50%). Work submitted after 2pm, 14 calendar days after
    the deadline will not be marked and the formal mark which goes
    forward to the grade sheet will be zero (0%).

6.  If you feel that you are facing issues that might delay your
    assignment submission past the deadline, or make it difficult for
    you to complete it to your best ability, then you should request an
    extension. You can self-certify or provide evidence of mitigating
    circumstances. Self certified extensions are for one week, those
    with evidence are for two weeks. Students with Summaries of
    Adjustment are automatically granted a two week extension and do not
    need to apply. Details are online via Nest[^10].

<!-- -->

7.  You may use generative AI for explanations, to generate ideas or to
    get advice on improving your work. However, be aware that the
    material generated by these AI tools may be inaccurate, incomplete,
    or otherwise problematic. If you include material produced by
    generative AI it should be cited in the same way as you would cite
    other references. You will not receive credit for this work. Any
    plagiarism or other form of cheating will be dealt with under the
    University of Roehampton academic misconduct policy.

## Assessment Criteria

### Learning relating to relevant module aims and outcomes

**80-100 (outstanding)**: A sophisticated and comprehensive engagement
with module aims and attainment of learning outcomes.

**70-79 (distinction standard)**: A sophisticated and comprehensive
engagement with module aims and attainment of learning outcomes.

**60-69 (merit standard)**: A clear and systematic engagement with
module aims and substantial attainment of learning outcomes.

**50-59 (pass standard)**: Engagement with the module aims and
attainment of learning outcomes.

**40-49 (fail)**: Very limited engagement with the module aims and
attainment of learning outcomes.

**0-40 (fail)**: Fails to engage with the module aims, and learning
outcomes are not attained.

### Range and understanding of literature, key concepts and theories

**80-100 (outstanding)**: Authoritative grasp of a very good range of
relevant literature, and in-depth understanding of concepts and
techniques, demonstrating an integration of relevant literature and
analysis. A comprehensive integration of relevant literature and
analysis

**70-79 (distinction standard)**: Authoritative grasp of a very good
range of relevant literature, and in-depth understanding of concepts and
techniques, demonstrating an integration of relevant literature and
analysis.

**60-69 (merit standard)**: Good understanding of relevant literature,
key concepts and techniques, and good use is made of a range of tools
and techniques.

**50-59 (pass standard)**: Sound understanding of relevant literature,
key concepts and techniques, and appropriate use is made of sources,
though these may be limited.

**40-49 (fail)**: A basic understanding of relevant literature, key
concepts and techniques.

**0-40 (fail)**: Lacking in conceptual content and / or the accurate and
analytical use of appropriate sources and techniques.

### Analysis of data

**80-100 (outstanding)**: A sophisticated analysis of the data provided.
For example, the generation of models drawing upon that exploratory
analysis. Achieves an outstanding critical insight into the data and
related educational issues.

**70-79 (distinction standard)**: Statistcs are used to analyse the data
in a systematic and in-depth way, and the analysis is clear, coherent
and critical, providing insight into complex issues.

**60-69 (merit standard)**: Statistics are applied to analyse the data
in a systematic way, and the analysis is clear, coherent and consistent.

**50-59 (pass standard)**: Statistics are applied to the data, and the
analysis has some clarity, coherence and criticality.

**40-49 (fail)**: Analysis is largely descriptive and lacking in clarity
and coherence.

**0-40 (fail)**: Mainly descriptive, rather than analytical, and fails
to make links between analysis and broader context.

### Communication, structure and presentation

**80-100 (outstanding)**: Very good organisation, a precise writing
style, and presented in standard English. Visualisations reflect a deep
and insightful mastery of statistics, showing a thorough command of the
underlying principles and techniques.

**70-79 (distinction standard)**: Very good organisation, a precise
writing style, and presented in standard English.Visualisations indicate
an excellent understanding of the principles and practice of statistical
communication, providing clear insight into the data in line with models
of good practice.

**60-69 (merit standard)**: Good organisation, a clear writing style,
referenced well and presented in standard English. Visualisations
indicate a good working knowledge of statistical communication, dopting
the standard conventions of statistical presentation.

**50-59 (pass standard)**: Appropriate organisation, an appropriate
writing style, is presented in standard English. Visualisations indicate
the ability to communicate statistics effectively, possibly despite
minor errors, omissions or inconsistencies

**40-49 (fail)**: Lacks appropriate organisation and structure, is
presented in non-standard English. Aspects of the visualisations suggest
a misunderstanding of statistical concepts or practices. Visualisations
include errors, omissions or inconsistencies which impede understanding
of the data

**0-40 (fail)**: Unfocused, poorly organised. English is poor with
errors of spelling, grammar and punctuation. Visualisations are absent,
inappropriate or misleading.

# Teaching and learning

This module has a practical, hands-on approach. You familiarize yourself
with quantitative research approaches through face to face sessions
which combine aspects of lecture, seminar and practical lab. The
teaching and learning strategy will adopt a problem-solving and situated
approach to expose you to real-life scenarios and to data sets.

For the current academic year, these face to face sessions are paired
with guided, independent study sessions in alternate weeks, where I
suggest readings and practical work and offer data sets for you to
explore and analyse.

You must engage fully with sessions and set tasks. Attendance in person
and active participation in the seminar sessions are necessary for the
successful completion of the course.

For a 20 credit module, there’s an expectation that you work about 200
hours, so as well as attending lectures and working on your project,
there should be lots of time for independent study. Do read widely,
using the book list as a starting point, but also the suggestions for
wider reading and listening given below.

Develop your software skills independently: focus on analysis and
visualisation using Python (including Pandas and Seaborn via Google’s
Colab Jupyter Notebook server).

Most importantly, explore and investigate data sets - we’ll agree the
dataset for the assignment, and we’ll walk through a number together
during sessions, but the more practice you have in investigating
statistical questions the better you’ll do!

Face to face sessions are scheduled for 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm in DB 210, in
alternate weeks, as listed below.

## Week 1 - getting started, descriptive statistics, Jupyter and Pandas

23/1 Face to face

**Recommended readings**: Spiegelhalter (2019)

Hillman D (dir) (2012) [Tails You Win: The Science of
Chance](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sKiz5smpvE8). BBC

Button, T (2022) [MEI Introduction to Data
Science](https://www.kaggle.com/code/tombutton/mei-intro-ds-activity-1/notebook).
MEI

**Datasets**: modelling random dice rolls; pre and post test scores for
a class.

We discuss the scope and structure of the module, and its assessment. We
contrast quantitative methods with qualitative methods, and discuss the
extent to which exprimental approaches can be considered appropriate for
educational research.

I introduce you foundational ideas of statistics, and we look at how
measurs of central tendency (mean, median and mode) can be implemented
in Python, whilst demonstrating the Juptyer / Colab environment.

We explore Pandas, a Python library for data analysis, and look at how
this can be used to import, manipulate and summarise data. We look at
how data can be visualised using Seaborn, another Python library.

## Week 2 - Descriptive statistics

30/1 Indepednent study

**Recommended readings:** Chapter 15 of Denscombe and OverDrive (2014);
chapters 1 and 2 of Gignac (2019)

**Dataset:** [2018 Nu3 Carbon Footprint
Index](https://www.nu3.de/blogs/nutrition/food-carbon-footprint-index-2018)

This week develops your understanding of descriptive statistics such as
the mean, median, mode and standard deviation. You’ll also practice your
Python and Pandas skills.

In addition to the above readings, read through Hart, G, et al (2021)
[Crumbs! Understanding Data: a Dstl biscuit
book](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/crumbs-understanding-data-a-dstl-biscuit-book/crumbs-understanding-data-a-dstl-biscuit-book).
Dstl, and then work through Matsui, M (2023) [Introduction to statistics
in
Python](https://rpubs.com/datttrian/introduction-to-statistics-in-python).
RPubs.

## Week 3 - Survey data

6/2 Face to face

**Recommended reading:** Chapters 17 and 25 of Cohen *et al.* (2018).

**Dataset:** IT skills survey for initial teacher training students.

We look at how surveys can be used to collect data, and how this data
can be analysed. We look at how to construct a survey, and how to
analyse the results. We look at how to visualise survey data, and how to
compare the results from different groups.

I provide you with survey data from initial teacher training students,
and you construct some visualisations. We perform some analysis
comparing results between groups. We discuss the extent to which Likert
scale data can be analysed in the same way as interval data.

## Week 4 - data visualisation

13/2 Independent study

**Recommended reading:** Wilke (2019) and Wickham (2010)

**Dataset:** [National Student Survey for
2023](https://www.officeforstudents.org.uk/data-and-analysis/national-student-survey-data/)

In addition to the above readings, explore the tools available in
Python’s Seaborn library for visualising data. Work through the examples
in the [Seaborn tutorial
introduction](https://seaborn.pydata.org/tutorial/introduction.html).

I provide you with a Notebook for the National Student Survey data.
Create some visualisations to explore this data, and write a short
report on your findings.

## Week 5 - linear models

20/2 Face to face

**Recommended reading:** Kemp, Wong and Berry (2019)

**Dataset:** [School performance data for
2023](https://www.compare-school-performance.service.gov.uk/download-data?currentstep=region&downloadYear=2022-2023&regiontype=all&la=0)

We look at the ideas of correlation and linear regression. We discuss
factor analysis through t-tests and ANOVA, extending this to the idea of
generalised linear models.

We explore the school performance data for GCSE results in 2023, and
look for relationships between variables. We look at how to visualise
these relationships, and how to test for significance.

## Week 6 - linear models continued

27/2 Independent study

**Recommended reading:** Stojiljković (no date)

**Dataset:** [School performance data for
2023](https://www.compare-school-performance.service.gov.uk/download-data?currentstep=region&downloadYear=2022-2023&regiontype=all&la=0)

Read through Stojiljković (no date).

I provide you with a Notebook for offer, uptake and attainment for a
GCSE subject from 2023, based on the school performance data. You
explore the data, make comparisons between groups of schools and look
for relationships between variables. You write a short report on your
findings including appropriate visualisations.

## Week 7 - randomised control trials

5/3 Face to face

**Recommended reading:** Goldacre (2013), Coe *et al.* (2013), Burnett
and Coldwell (2021)

**Dataset:** To be confirmed

We look at the idea of randomised control trials, and how these can be
used to evaluate educational interventions. We look at how to design a
randomised control trial, and how to analyse the results.

I hope to provide some raw data from a randomised control trial, and
you’ll analyse this data, looking for relationships and differences
between groups.

## Week 8 - geographical data

12/3 Face to face

**Recommended reading:** Chou, L (2019) [Top 10 map types in data
visualization](https://towardsdatascience.com/top-10-map-types-in-data-visualization-b3a80898ea70).
Towards Data Science. And [Interactive
Maps](https://autogis-site.readthedocs.io/en/2021/notebooks/L5/02_interactive-map-folium.html)
from the University of Helsinki’s Automating GIS-processes 2021.

**Dataset:** [School performance data for
2023](https://www.compare-school-performance.service.gov.uk/download-data?currentstep=region&downloadYear=2022-2023&regiontype=all&la=0)

We explore some approaches to visualising geographically located data. I
introduce you to how data can be overlayed onto maps using Python’s
Folium interface for Leaflet maps. We discuss some of the ethical issues
associated with linking data to highly specific geographical data.

We create a map of school performance data by school. We then aggregate
this data by local authority, and create a choropleth map of this data.
We link this to demographic data at local authority level, and look for
relationships between these variables.

We agree a dataset for the assignment if we have not already done so. I
help you prepare this for analysis and we discuss some of the approaches
you might take.

## Week 9 - International comparisons

19/3 Independent study

**Recommended reading:** OECD (2023)

**Dataset:** [PISA 2023](https://www.oecd.org/pisa/data/)

I prepare a Notebook for the PISA 2023 data, and you explore this data,
looking for relationships and differences between countries. You write a
short report on your findings including appropriate visualisations.

## Week 10 - Preparing for the assignment

26/3 Independent study

**Recommended reading:** Chapters 38-44 of Cohen *et al.* (2018)

**Dataset:** To be confirmed

This week provides an opportunity for you to start exploring the
assignment dataset for yourself, drawing together what you’ve learnt
from the previous weeks. I’ll be available to answer any questions you
might have and help with your analysis.

# Resources

## Wider reading

There’s some great data-driven journalism around these days. [The
Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/data) have pioneered this, and
typically share the source data for the stories they cover. The style of
their articles and visualisations would serve as an excellent model for
your own reports. The Economist’s [Graphic
Detail](https://www.economist.com/graphic-detail/) section is very good
too, as is the [Visual
Journalism](https://www.ft.com/visual-and-data-journalism) work done at
the FT.

BBC Radio 4 have an excellent weekly program, [More or
Less](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006qshd), which covers
statistics in the news. Available as a podcast, online and through BBC
Sounds.

The Office of National Statistics have [an excellent
blog](https://blog.ons.gov.uk/) covering many aspects of their work. The
[Open Data Institute blog](https://theodi.org/knowledge-opinion/blog/)
is also worth reading.

For quantitative work directly related to education, the [Education
Endowment Foundation](https://educationendowmentfoundation.org.uk/) is a
good place to start. They’ve funded a number of randomised control
trials, and have a good blog and podcast. The [Sutton
Trust](https://www.suttontrust.com/) is another good source of
quantitative research on education, as are the [National Foundation for
Education Research (NFER)](https://www.nfer.ac.uk/) and Fisher Family
Trust’s [Education Datalab](https://ffteducationdatalab.org.uk/).

## Software

We’ll use [Moodle](http://moodle.roehampton.ac.uk) as a repository for
datasets, readings and notes, but much of my course materials are also
stored on [GitHub](https://github.com/milesberry/SRM020L010S)

In most sessions I’ll offer a Python Jupyter notebook to explore the
dataset, and encourage you to experiment with this. We’ll be using
[Google’s Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) implementation of
[Jupyter Notebooks](https://jupyter.org/), the [Pandas
toolkit](https://pandas.pydata.org/) for working with dataframes, and a
number of visualisation libraries including
[Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/), [Plotly](https://plotly.com/)
and Folium, a Python interface for [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/).
Statistical tests are done using [SciPy](https://www.scipy.org/), and
generalised linear models using [scikit
learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression.html).

## Bibliography

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body">

<div id="ref-balnaves2001" class="csl-entry">

Balnaves, M. and Caputi, P. (2001) *Introduction to quantitative
research methods: An investigative approach* (1 online resource (xii,
257 pages) : illustrations). London ; SAGE (Online access with
subscription: SAGE research methods (Core)). Available at:
<http://www.dawsonera.com/depp/reader/protected/external/AbstractView/S9781848608641>
(Accessed: 29 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-bryman2012" class="csl-entry">

Bryman, A. (2012) *Social research methods*. 4th ed. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.

</div>

<div id="ref-burnett2021" class="csl-entry">

Burnett, C. and Coldwell, M. (2021) ‘Randomised controlled trials and
the interventionisation of education’, *Oxford Review of Education*,
47(4), pp. 423–438. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1080/03054985.2020.1856060>.

</div>

<div id="ref-cairo2013" class="csl-entry">

Cairo, A. (2013) *The functional art: An introduction to information
graphics and visualization* (1 online resource (1 volume) :
illustrations). Berkeley, CA: New Riders. Available at:
<http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&scope=site&db=nlebk&db=nlabk&AN=1598001>
(Accessed: 30 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-coe2013" class="csl-entry">

Coe, R. *et al.* (2013) *The DIY Evaluation Guide*. Education Endowment
Foundation.

</div>

<div id="ref-cohen2018" class="csl-entry">

Cohen, L. *et al.* (2018) *Research methods in education*. Eighth
edition. London ; Routledge.

</div>

<div id="ref-denscombe2014" class="csl-entry">

Denscombe, M. and OverDrive, I. (2014) *The Good Research Guide*.
\[Place of publication not identified\]: McGraw-Hill Education.
Available at:
[https://roe.idm.oclc.org/login?url=https://www-vlebooks-com.roe.idm.oclc.org/Vleweb/Product/Index/696818?page=0&uid=^u](https://roe.idm.oclc.org/login?url=https://www-vlebooks-com.roe.idm.oclc.org/Vleweb/Product/Index/696818?page=0&uid=^u).

</div>

<div id="ref-gignac2019" class="csl-entry">

Gignac, G.E. (2019) *How2statsbook*. Perth, Australia. Available at:
<http://www.how2statsbook.com/p/chapters.html>.

</div>

<div id="ref-goldacre2013" class="csl-entry">

Goldacre, B. (2013) *Building Evidence into Education*. Department for
Education. Available at:
<https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/5a7a219140f0b66eab999f4f/Building_evidence_into_education.pdf>.

</div>

<div id="ref-hart2011" class="csl-entry">

Hart, G. *et al.* (2011) *Crumbs! Understanding Data: A Dstl biscuit
book*. GOV.UK. Available at:
<https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/crumbs-understanding-data-a-dstl-biscuit-book/crumbs-understanding-data-a-dstl-biscuit-book>
(Accessed: 30 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-holcomb2017" class="csl-entry">

Holcomb, Z.C. (2017) *Interpreting basic statistics : A workbook based
on excerpts from journal articles. Zealure C. Holcomb and Keith S. Cox*.
Eighth edition. London: Routledge. Available at:
<https://roe.idm.oclc.org/login?url=https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/roehampton-ebooks/detail.action?docID=4941856>.

</div>

<div id="ref-hovy2022" class="csl-entry">

Hovy, D. (2022) *Text analysis in Python for social scientists:
Prediction and classification* (1 online resource (92 pages) : color
illustrations.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (Cambridge
elements. Elements in quantitative and computational methods for the
social sciences, 2398-4023). Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108960885> (Accessed: 29 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-hoy2010" class="csl-entry">

Hoy, W.K. (2010) *Quantitative research in education: A primer* (1
online resource (xvi, 141 pages)). Los Angeles Calif. ; SAGE. Available
at: <https://dx.doi.org/10.4135/9781452272061> (Accessed: 29 January
2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-ioannidis2014" class="csl-entry">

Ioannidis, J.P.A., Boyack, K.W. and Klavans, R. (2014) ‘Estimates of the
Continuously Publishing Core in the Scientific Workforce’, *PLoS ONE*,
9(7), p. e101698. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0101698>.

</div>

<div id="ref-jung2002" class="csl-entry">

Jung, I. *et al.* (2002) ‘Effects of Different Types of Interaction on
Learning Achievement, Satisfaction and Participation in Web-Based
Instruction’, *Innovations in Education and Teaching International*,
39(2), pp. 153–162. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1080/14703290252934603>.

</div>

<div id="ref-kemp2019" class="csl-entry">

Kemp, P.E.J., Wong, B. and Berry, M.G. (2019) ‘Female Performance and
Participation in Computer Science: A National Picture’, *ACM
Transactions on Computing Education*, 20(1), pp. 4:1–4:28. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1145/3366016>.

</div>

<div id="ref-kirk2019" class="csl-entry">

KIRK, A. (2019) *DATA VISUALISATION: A handbook for data driven design.*
S.l.: SAGE PUBLICATIONS.

</div>

<div id="ref-magallanesreyes2017" class="csl-entry">

Magallanes Reyes, J.M. (2017) *Introduction to data science for social
and policy research: Collecting and organizing data with R and Python*
(1 online resource (xi, 303 pages) : illustrations, maps). Cambridge,
United Kingdom ; Cambridge University Press. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1017/9781316338599> (Accessed: 29 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-mann2016" class="csl-entry">

Mann, W., Roy, P. and Morgan, G. (2016) ‘Adaptation of a vocabulary test
from British Sign Language to American Sign Language’, *Language
Testing*, 33(1), pp. 3–22. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1177/0265532215575627>.

</div>

<div id="ref-mckinney2022" class="csl-entry">

McKinney, W. (2022) *Python for data analysis: Data wrangling with
Pandas, NumPy, and Jupyter* (1 online resource (1 volume) :
illustrations). Third edition. Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly Media, Inc.
Available at: <https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/-/9781098104023/>
(Accessed: 29 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-mclevey2021" class="csl-entry">

McLevey, J. (2021) *Doing computational social science: A practical
introduction* (1 online resource (768 pages)). Washington, D.C.: SAGE
Publications Ltd (Core textbook). Available at:
<https://app.talis.com/textbooks/9781529736700> (Accessed: 29 January
2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-muijs2011" class="csl-entry">

Muijs, D. (2011) *Doing quantitative research in education with SPSS* (1
online resource (xv, 247 pages)). Second edition. Los Angeles: Sage
Publications. Available at: <https://dx.doi.org/10.4135/9781849203241>
(Accessed: 29 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-nancyl.marshall2009" class="csl-entry">

Nancy L. Marshall, A.J.T. (2009) ‘After the Baby: Work-Family Conflict
and Working Mothers’ Psychological Health’, *Family Relations*, 58(4),
pp. 380–391. Available at:
<https://roe.idm.oclc.org/login?url=http://www.jstor.org/stable/40405697?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents>.

</div>

<div id="ref-oecd2023" class="csl-entry">

OECD (2023) *PISA 2022 Results (Volume I): The State of Learning and
Equity in Education*. Paris: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development. Available at:
<https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/education/pisa-2022-results-volume-i_53f23881-en>
(Accessed: 30 January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-parsons2017" class="csl-entry">

Parsons, S. *et al.* (2017) ‘The influence of private primary schooling
on children’s learning: Evidence from three generations of children
living in the UK’, *British Educational Research Journal*, 43(5), pp.
823–847. Available at: <https://doi.org/10.1002/berj.3300>.

</div>

<div id="ref-rajagopalan2021" class="csl-entry">

Rajagopalan, G. (2021) *A Python data analyst’s toolkit: Learn Python
and <span class="nocase">Python-based</span> libraries with applications
in data analysis and statistics* (1 online resource). New York: Apress.
Available at: <https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-6399-0> (Accessed: 29
January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-spiegelhalter2019" class="csl-entry">

Spiegelhalter, D.J. (2019) *The art of statistics: Learning from data*.
London UK: Pelican, an imprint of Penguin Books.

</div>

<div id="ref-stojiljkovic" class="csl-entry">

Stojiljković, M. (no date) *Linear Regression in Python – Real Python*.
Real Python. Available at:
<https://realpython.com/linear-regression-in-python/> (Accessed: 30
January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-summers2005" class="csl-entry">

Summers, J.J., Waigandt, A. and Whittaker, T.A. (2005) ‘A Comparison of
Student Achievement and Satisfaction in an Online Versus a
<span class="nocase">Traditional Face-to-Face Statistics Class</span>’,
*Innovative Higher Education*, 29(3), pp. 233–250. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s10755-005-1938-x>.

</div>

<div id="ref-thrane2023" class="csl-entry">

Thrane, C. (2023) *Doing statistical analysis: A student’s guide to
quantitative research* (1 online resource (vii, 255 pages) :
illustrations). Abingdon, Oxon ; Routledge. Available at:
<https://www.taylorfrancis.com/books/9781003252559> (Accessed: 29
January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-urdan2005" class="csl-entry">

Urdan, T.C. (2005) *Statistics in Plain English*. Mahwah: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.

</div>

<div id="ref-vanderplas2023" class="csl-entry">

Vanderplas, J.T. (2023) *Python data science handbook: Essential tools
for working with data* (1 online resource (xxiv, 563 pages) :
illustrations). Second edition. Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly Media,
Incorporated. Available at:
<https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/-/9781098121211/> (Accessed: 29
January 2024).

</div>

<div id="ref-wickham2010" class="csl-entry">

Wickham, H. (2010) ‘A Layered Grammar of Graphics’, *Journal of
Computational and Graphical Statistics*, 19(1), pp. 3–28. Available at:
<https://doi.org/10.1198/jcgs.2009.07098>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wilke2019" class="csl-entry">

Wilke, C.O. (2019) *Fundamentals of Data Visualization: A Primer on
Making Informative and Compelling Figures.* O’Reilly Media,
Incorporated.

</div>

</div>

[^1]: <https://educationendowmentfoundation.org.uk/>

[^2]: <https://www.python.org/>

[^3]: <https://pandas.pydata.org/>

[^4]: <https://jupyter.org/>

[^5]: <https://seaborn.pydata.org/>

[^6]: <https://plotly.com/>

[^7]: <https://colab.research.google.com/>

[^8]: Such as Python / Pandas / Jupyter / Colab, as in the module’s
    lectures.

[^9]: <https://www.citethemrightonline.com/category-list?docid=CTRHarvard>

[^10]: <https://roehamptonprod.sharepoint.com/sites/portal/nest/examinations/Pages/mitigating-circumstances.aspx>
